I'm dr. Brian novi and I teach in the
restorative dentistry department as a
beaming ear to my area of expertise is
dental caries and that's just the
scientific term for a cavity I'm not a
very unique person I'm very boring I'm
very serious I don't like to have fun I
find that teeth give me all the
enjoyment I need in life and no I take
that back I like to scuba dive and I go
hiking I like to bird watch in my
backyard I have 16 different bird
feeders a backyard i am going to meet
with my therapist to discuss the fact
that I think it's become more of an
addiction rather than just a hobby at
this point I knew before I ever went to
a dentist the first time when I was
seven years old that I wanted to be a
dentist don't ask me why I had no idea
my high school counselor said that
dental school probably would not be an
option for me that I probably couldn't
handle it academically and so I wound up
studying opera instead and drop it out
of opera worked in the theme park
industry for a long time
actually I had an employee who went home
with a toothache one day and I thought
well how did I wind up working in a
theme park when I wanted to be a dentist
and I went to college and then came to
dental school here and now I'm faculty I
think that most people don't realize how
much blood you're going to see when your
dentist because a little bit of blood
mixed with a lot of saliva looks like a
lot of blood what's a typical dental
student here at loma linda i would say
it's probably someone who's has very
strong academic performance and can
handle a really really seriously
difficult course load you can't have
other things really taking your time
away from you while you're in dental
school so it puts a lot of strain on
personal relationships on family
relationships so it can be tricky look a
black Phoebe right there sitting right
there yeah it flies across the grass it
snatches of insects you know it catches
an insect when you hear a sharp click of
its beak as it kills the insect watch it
it's cool are you the type of person
who's going into dentistry because you
just want to make a lot of money or do
you want to go into dentistry because
you have a passion for helping people
because you have a passion for teeth
here at Loma Linda the emphasis is
helping people first making money second
my career goals are very fluid right now
because when you graduate dental school
of a sudden you realize a gigantic goal
you had and then once you've reached
that goal you go this is it seriously
that's the way you feel when you get
your degree you go I'm a doctor and you
have to get some new goals really
quickly so it's kind of like when you
get into dental school you've been
handed a gigantic gift for you to
customize the rest of your life and I
think back on my life when I was 17
years old and my high school counselor
said I wasn't smart enough to be a
dentist even though that's all I ever
wanted to do now look at myself sitting
here recording the video for loma linda
when I remember the day when I was on
the internet looking up how to be a
dentist and oh my gosh I don't think
I'll ever be able to do this and how do
I get to be here I guess one day I just
said all right I'm gonna do it and I
and I have a winning smile